Procedural Generation of Interactive Environments using 
Biologically Inspired Computation 
 
You are being invited to take part in a research study. Before deciding if you would 
like to take part, it is important for you to understand what the research will involve, 
and why it is being undertaken. Please take time to read the following information 
carefully.
 
What is the purpose of the study? 
The study aims to research the use of biologically inspired computation* in the role of 
procedural content generation(PCG)** within videogames and interactive environments. The 
study should take no longer than 20 minutes. You will be presented with two versions of a 
game in first-person perspective, each to be played one after the other. The gameplay 
elements and overall design will be the same between both versions but each will have been 
created using different PCG techniques. 
*programming methods that model life 
**content generated by algorithms, rather than manually 

Why have I been invited to participate? 
You are someone that has some experience of, or interest in, videogames/interactive 
environments. Approximately 20 other people will be taking this study. 

Do I have to take part? 
Taking part in this study is entirely voluntary. If you do decide to take part, you will be asked 
to click to accept or deny on a digital consent form. You are free to withdraw from the study 
at any time without needing to give a reason. If you are a student, taking part in this study 
will have no impact on your marks, assessment, or future study. 

What will happen to me if I take part? 
After playing the game you will be asked to complete a short online questionnaire 
about your experiences with the two versions of the game, and how you felt they 
compared. You will also be asked to provide your age within a range, your gender, 
and the types of game you play, if any. Additional data may also be collected 
automatically about how long it took you to play and whether you quit before the end 
of the play session. 
 
What are the possible disadvantages of taking part? 
The time involved taken in this study will vary depending on your previous 
experience with games, and possible bugs that may appear that force you to quit 
before the game ends. 

What are the possible benefits of taking part? 
The game is designed to be entertaining for the participants of the study. It is hoped 
your feedback will be of use for future development of games using these 
techniques. 

Will my information in this study be kept confidential? 
The data collected will be kept strictly confidential. Your anonymity will be ensured 
as you will not have to provide your name, and the age you give will be within a 
range. 
 
What should I do if I want to take part? 
Please press accept to continue. 
 
What will happen to the results of the research study? 
The results will be used in my third year project BSc Thesis. Should you wish to obtain a 
copy of the thesis, please contact me via the details listed in the contact section. 
 
Who is organising and funding the research? 
This research is being conducted by myself, a student of Informatics at the University 
of Sussex.
 
Who has approved this study? 
Prof Peter Cheng
School of Engineering and Informatics 
 
Contact for Further Information 
Daniel Ingrey 
Email: di31@sussex.ac.uk 
If you have concerns about the way in which this research is being undertaken 
please contact my supervisor: Alice Eldridge 
Email: alicee@sussex.ac.uk 
 
Thank you for taking part in this study. 
